Our sign up form is working now, but let's refactor our implementation and let's do it more.
Angular way in.
Angular components shouldn't be fetching or saving data directly.
They should be just focusing on presenting the data and delegating all the data access to the services.
So here in this one click signup, we are directly interacting with the client and we are posting the
data to back end.
But let's extract this functionality from this component and move into a service.
So we are going to create a service class and for that one we can use Angular CLI once again.
So we will use Angular Clai and G and we called G Generate.
And this time we are not going to create a component, but we are going to create a service and this
service will be under core folder and the service name will be user.
And again for this one, I'm not going to add the test.
So adding skip tests as true.
So this is just generating a user service to us under this core directory.
So if you check the project structure right here, we have the core folder and in it we have this user
service to define a class as a service in Angular.
We are using this injectable decorator and with it we provide the metadata that allows Angular to inject
it into a component as a dependency.
So in this injectable, we have this provided in and the value is root, which means this service becomes
part of the root module.
This means this service is provided in the root module of the application.
Therefore, it's going to be available in every component.
Now we are going to move the HTTP related parts into this one.
So.
First, let's inject the client
right here and here we will have a, let's say, the function of sign up.
And basically the sign up will do this thing, just copying this one.
Pasting here.
So it's going to be calling this HTTP client post and.
This part is the request, buddy.
So let's say we will have the body and we can define the body type here.
So like username, which is string, then email, string and password, that's also string.
So we will just pass this body and in this one we are not going to subscribe it.
This is just going to be delegating this post request.
Basically we will call this user service sign up function and we will pass the body to it.
And as a result is calling this a typical end post and it is returning back.
So the subscription will still remain here in this on click signup so that we can wait for the answer
and update the signup six success accordingly.
Now we have this functionality in user service and we are going to use user service in sign up component.
So we no longer need a HTTP client.
We need user service.
User Service.
Since the user service is part of the root module, angler will be able to inject it to the to the signup
component here.
And here we will be calling this user service.
Sign up with the object.
This one.
And then we have this subscribe here.
So we don't need this type of client in the.
Sign them component anymore.
Let's say this.
And here we can see the tests are passing.
The tests are not failing this time because the service because again, the service is part of the root
module.
When we were creating components, we need to like go to the test modules and declare them as well.
But the service is part of the route module, so it's being accessible from the test module as well.
So the tests are not affected with this refactoring.
So that's how we are extracting the functionalities to the services.
Another advantage of the service is other than separating the concerns, it's also making it easier
for testing the components.
If you remember, we have directly interacted with the HTP client and also we interacted with the Fetch
when testing the API functionality.
Now when we are using a service instead of thinking about the implementation details in this service
like we are using HTP client, or we can go and use fetch or Axios or anything in future.
So in the test for the sign up component, we can just mock the functionality of the user service and
then we shouldn't be caring about what the user service is actually making the HTTP request.
So here the karma output is passing and also the just tests are passing.